---
layout: post
title: "過門不入"
date: 2019-07-27
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _guò mén bù rù_
description: Man works too hard to return home for quality time
---

#### _guò mén bù rù_

Literal translation: To **pass by (過, guò)** the **door (門, mén)** and
**not enter (不入, bù rù)**

Actual translation: **To work hard at the expense of your personal life**

The ancient **[Emperor Shun](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emperor_Shun)**
employed a Master of Works named Yu, who inherited the role from his dad.
The old man could not control the Great Floods ravaging China, and was
eventually fired - via Imperial Execution. Not a particularly fun way to lose
a job.

Determined not to end up similarly unemployed, Yu dedicated his life to the
waterworks. He worked so hard that he remained single until the age of thirty
(a surprisingly progressive take on the social construct of marriage, really).
Yu enjoyed his 4 day honeymoon, then promptly left for work right away. For the
next 13 years, Yu never returned home - ever - despite passing by on three
occasions and hearing the cries of his newborn child. Now that's what I call
hands-off parenting.

The hard work paid off: Yu eventually cured the floods and earned his way to
the throne as the **[Great Emperor Yu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yu_the_Great)**.
But were his professional accomplishments worth sacrificing what could have been
a deeply fulfilling family life? Wouldn't we like to know.

**TL;DR**: Yu worked so hard he became a role model for justifying Chinese work
ethic. That, or he was terrified of his wife.
