---
layout: post
title: "梁上君子"
date: 2019-12-14
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _liáng shàng jūn zǐ_
description: You won't believe what happens to this amateur thief
---

#### _liáng shàng jūn zǐ_

Literal: **On the ceiling beams (梁上, liáng shàng)** lies a
**gentleman (君子, jūn zǐ)**

Actual: A thief

Chen Shi, an [Eastern Han](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Han_dynasty)
government official, was a respectable man who lived
an honest life, demonstrated intellectual prowess, and - most importantly -
did not sell out Hong Kong to an authoritarian regime. All you can ask from any
decent politician, really. The townspeople would rather be punished by law than
be criticized by Chen Shi, as his words were of great wisdom and kindness.

One day, after returning home from dealing with a noise complaint (“Jie Lun
does karaoke past quiet hours!”), Chen Shi noticed something odd in the foyer.
A thief, clad in tight black robes with his head in an equally black bandana,
crouched silently on the ceiling beams above. He leapt back and forth, making
his way to the central hall.

Seeing this, Chen Shi summoned his children and grandchildren together for a
meeting; one by one they shuffled into the great hall. The thief stayed frozen
above the beams, careful not to reveal himself to the crowd. Chen Shi paused,
motioned for silence, and spoke:

“My children - you must study to become honest members of society. You cannot
take shortcuts in life to get what you want. Some people do bad things - they
may not be bad people, but they seek the joys of life without putting in work.
Look! Just like the gentleman crouching above us!”

All eyes turned to the thief, who was frozen in shock. Flustered and
embarrassed, the thief climbed down and knelt in front of Chen Shi. “Please,
good lord, have mercy!” Chen Shi smiled, patting the thief on the shoulder.
“You seem to be a good person going through tough times - how about I help you
out with a small loan of a million dollars?” The grateful thief quickly left;
he would go on to start a multinational conglomerate that constructed obnoxious
golden towers all around the world.

**TL;DR:** A thief breaks in, is used as a lesson in morality, then paid some
seed money to get a new start in life. Perhaps welfare is the ultimate form of
venture capitalism.
