---
layout: post
title: "螳螂捕蟬"
date: 2019-12-27
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _táng láng bǔ chán_
description: Two bugs, one bird
---

#### _táng láng bǔ chán_

Literal: The **Praying Mantis (螳螂, táng láng)** **hunts (捕, bǔ)** the 
**Cicada (蟬, chán)**

Actual: Lack of foresight, inability to see the bigger picture

During the [Spring and Autumn period](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spring_and_Autumn_period),
King Helu of the Wu Kingdom wanted to attack the Chu Kingdom. Why would anyone
do that, Chu ask? Wu knows, really? In any case Helu sat on his throne and
proclaimed, “I want to attack the Chu, and I will promptly execute anyone who
objects. Does anyone object?” Nobody did. All the king’s men bowed their heads;
they preferred keeping those on their necks. “Well then! Let us sortie.”

A young scholar in court bowed as well, but he was rather distraught. The
scholar disliked both war and decapitation, so he came up with a plan. He
starting walking around with a slingshot in his hand, as well as visibly
wet sleeves on his scholarly robes. This continued for three days straight
until the king finally flagged him down and asked: “Why don’t you get a change
of clothes? We offer free laundry service - didn’t you attend orientation?”

The scholar stopped smiled. “Well you see, I’ve been hanging around the
royal gardens recently. One day, I saw a cicada buzzing peacefully on a tree.
However, a few inches away, a praying mantis was carefully stalking the cicada,
readying its pincers and going in for the kill. Oddly enough, a few feet away
on another branch perched a Yellow Siskin, about to spread its wings and swoop
in for the mantis. I whipped out my trusty slingshot to get a shot at the
bird - but alas, I accidentally fell into the garden pool instead. I suppose
we can all afford to look before we leap, can't we?”

The king gently smiled. “I see - I suppose you might be correct.” He soon
called off the invasion and thus a war was avoided. The scholar was, to his
relief, not decapitated (although he was put on laundry duty for a few weeks).

Extra credit - this Chengyu has several different variants. The source for this
variant is [here](https://ctext.org/dictionary.pl?if=en&id=21770), in an ancient
work of similarly proverbial stories (this took an hour to look up).

**TL;DR:** King is convinced to not act in haste by a scholar who tells a
funny story. We could all do with more caution in our lives, lest we overlook
the danger of praying mantises, decorative garden pools and overly eager
grandparents who ask about your love life.
