---
layout: post
title: "鷸蚌相爭"
date: 2019-11-30
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _yù bàng xiāng zhēng_
description: Free seafood courtesy of inflated egos
---

#### _zì xiāng máo dùn_

Literal: The **Snipe (鷸, yù)** and the **Clam (蚌, bàng)**
**fight each other(相爭, xiāng zhēng)**

Actual: The third party in a conflict always wins

King Hui led the Zhao kingdom during the Warring States period. During one of
his daily stand-up meetings, he declared: “We have a solid chance at acquiring
the Yan kingdom - our soldiers itch for war. Any objections?”

Su Dai, one of his trusted advisors, quietly groaned. Wars were expensive, not
to mention that the neighboring Qing empire was also expanding at a dangerous
pace. Su Dai approached the King and started telling a story.

“I saw something odd the other day - a giant, sun-bathing Clam with its shell
open. Along flew a Snipe, who quickly spotted the sand-bathing Clam. ‘Aha!
Gourmet seafood for lunch!’ The Snipe swooped down and jabbed its beak into
the juicy Clam, which quickly slammed its shell shut on the Snipe's beak.

‘Ack!’ Yelled the Snipe. ‘You won’t get away with this! I’ll wait until
tomorrow, and without any rain you’ll soon dry out!’ The Clam chuckled. ‘Oi!
I’m in no bloody hurry either - by tomorrow you’ll die of thirst, ya wanker!’”
(Su Dai coughed - he wasn’t great at British accents) “‘Well I suppose we’ll
see who wins then,’ said the Snipe.

Some time went by, and along came a fisherman tired from a day’s work. ‘Ah ha!
What a prize! Seafood AND roasted bird for me!’ The fisherman promptly bagged
the clam and bird, who were still too angry to release each other and escape
their doom.”

Su Dai stopped with the story, pausing for dramatic effect. King Hui held back
his various questions about the story (ie. why do clams speak with British
accents?), and nodded his head. “I see your point - maybe it is foolish for
us to attack. Dismissed!” Su Dai released a sigh of relief.

**TL;DR:** An advisor convinces his liege not to wage war 
