---
layout: post
title: "濫竽充數"
date: 2019-08-03
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _làn yú chōng shù_
description: Man fakes a cushy musician job and almost makes it work
---

#### _làn yú chōng shù_

Literal translation: **To pretend to play (濫, làn)** the **Yu (竽, yú)** and
**inflate headcount (充數, chōng shù)**

Actual translation: **Faking competence by hiding among others**

**[King Xuan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_Xuan_of_Qi)** loved the
**[Yu](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yu_(wind_instrument)>)**, a wind
instrument that was basically a bundle of flutes. He assembled a grand chorus
of 300 royal Yu players, each paid and treated so well that their Chinese
parents tolerated music as a "real job" - imagine that.

A lazy peasant named Nan-Guo was decidedly no musician - however, he had a
silver tongue and a clever plan. "My music", boasted Nan-Guo, "touches the
hearts of men and the beasts of nature. I must play for your honor, my king!"
Hearing this, the delighted King Xuan hired Nan-Guo on the spot. Nan-Guo began
his "musical career" of tilting and swaying to the chorus of other Yu's without
ever playing a real note, saving for retirement with his 401k and Backdoor Roth
IRA.

However, good times did not last. King Xuan died several years later, leaving
his son **[King Min](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_Min_of_Qi)** in charge.
Much like his father, the cultured King Min was, too, a music nerd. The problem?
He preferred solos. Min frowned at the massive orchestra and declared:
"Let there be budget cuts!" One by one, the new king called up each musician and
listened - praising Mr. Bak for his stately hymns, chastising Mr. Beitou-Fan for
being tone-deaf. But after going through 299 players, someone was missing -
guess who?

**TL;DR**: Nan-Guo almost faked his way through a well-paid musical career. The
official moral of the story is to NOT be a poser, although a shrewd reader
might have a different takeaway.
