---
layout: post
title: "井底之蛙"
date: 2019-09-29
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _jǐng dǐ zhī wā_
description: This crazy fact will blow your froggy mind
---

#### _jǐng dǐ zhī wā_

Literal: The **Frog (蛙, wā)** at the **bottom (底, dǐ)** of the
**well (井, jǐng)**

Actual: Someone who isn't very knowledgeable, or with a limited worldview

There once was a Frog who was born in a well. It was ignorant of anything
outside of the well - the sides were too tall and slippery to climb.
Nevertheless, the Frog came to love the well as its only home, occasionally
looking up to the night sky for entertainment. After all, there wasn't much
else to do without 4G coverage.

One day, the Frog heard a pitter patter above the well. A curious Sea Turtle
looked down and asked: "You OK there?"

"Well of course!" The frog beamed, delighted with his guest. "I'm having an
absolute ball. I can take all the baths I want, I rule over the tadpoles and
the shrimp, and I have the full Star Trek collection on VCR.
You should join me!"

The Sea Turtle was a bit skeptical at first - the well had a rather unpleasant
stench, and the Sea Turtle was more of a Star Wars fan. "Oh well, I do like
shrimp." But as the Sea Turtle shuffled around, its large shell got stuck at
the mouth of the well. After a few minutes of struggling, the Sea Turtle pulled
out. It had a better idea.

"Why don't you come and visit the ocean instead? That's where I live. An
infinite expanse water deeper than anything else. Even during the Great Floods,
the ocean did not rise; during the Great Droughts, the ocean did not fall. And
neither would happen, ever - well, barring a catastrophic change in atmospheric
composition and global ecosystems. Obviously. Whaddya say? I'm on my way to the
local book club - wanna join?" The poor frog simply sat there in disbelief,
with its mouth open and its tiny mind blown.

**TL;DR:** Frog living in a well stunned by the concept of an ocean. Although
the Frog eventually realized he couldn't survive seawater, the duo built a
pretty neat sandcastle instead.
