---
layout: post
title: "塞翁失馬"
date: 2019-08-10
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _sài wēng shī mǎ_
description: An old man loses a horse and triggers a chain reaction
---

#### _sài wēng shī mǎ_

Literal translation: **Sai-Won (塞翁, sài wēng) loses (失, shī) a horse
(馬, mǎ)**

Actual Meaning: **Every dark cloud has a silver lining, and vice versa**

Old man Sai-Won bred horses. One day, one of his horses went missing. The
neighbors comforted Sai-Won, afraid that the old man would hurt himself looking
for the horse. To their surprise, Sai-Won simply smiled. "Losing a horse is no
big deal - this might even be a blessing in disguise!" The neighbors were
relieved, but incredulous. "A coping mechanism," they muttered to each other.

A few days later, Sai-Won's horse returned with a friend: a strong, youthful
Hunnic steed. The neighbors were impressed. They congratulated Sai-Won on his
foresight - losing the horse was a blessing after all! However, Sai-Won frowned
and said: "This is a terrible omen - I must be due for a reckoning with my good
luck." The neighbors dismissed his silly ramblings yet again. Perhaps Sai-Won
didn't know how to emote properly - someone suggested Cognitive Behavioral
Therapy.

Along came Sai-Won's only son. He ecstatically mounted the new horse, only to
fall and and break his leg. Once again, the neighbors gathered to console the
old man, only to find that - surprise, surprise - Sai-Won was smiling with a
rather sadistic joy. "At least he's still alive - I count myself lucky!"
Everyone gave up on interpreting Sai-Won's thought process, as they were
characters in a story and hence unable to predict where the story was
obviously going.

The Huns soon decided to attack China, possibly because their horses kept
crossing the border for better perks (free hay and drinks!). Young men across
the empire were recruited and killed in battle - that is, except for Sai-Won's
son, with his foot in a cast, his hand in a bag of Doritos, and his beady
little eyes on an episode of current-season anime.

**TL;DR:** Sai-Won demonstrates healthy stoicism by assuming that life is
unpredictable and random. Perhaps there is always a rainbow at the end of
every storm - or, vice versa, an economic bubble at the end of every fiscally
irresponsible bull market.
