---
layout: post
title: "孟母三遷"
date: 2019-08-31
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _mèng mǔ sān qiān_
description: Menzi's mother relocates thrice
---

#### _mèng mǔ sān qiān_

Literal translation: **Menzi's (孟, mèng) mother (母, mǔ)**
**relocates three times (三遷, sān qiān)**

Actual Meaning: **To care about your children's upbringing**

[Menzi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mencius), an ancient Confucian
Philosopher, is widely acknowledged as the "Second Sage" - second only to
Confucius himself. However, Menzi was not born with this wisdom. As a child,
he was - as most children were, unfortunately - boisterous, unruly, and utterly
apathetic to the finer points of the
[Confucian Analects](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Analects).

Young Menzi and his widowed mother lived next to a cemetery. Menzi and his
friends grew up imitating funeral processions, each wailing and crying as they
kowtowed just as the adults did. His mother found out and sighed: "This is no
place to raise a kid - he'll end up chronically depressed! We'll have to move
somewhere else."

Their second home was next to a market, which was somewhat of an upgrade.
However, Menzi started imitating the merchants. He learned how to be a sly
salesperson by bluffing about his wares and haggling with customers. Legends
say he was pioneering the first Multi-Level Marketing scheme when his mother
discovered his antics yet again. "A salesperson? No! My son must become
properly educated!"

And so they moved yet again - right next to an academy. Young scholars read
from the Analects, discussed contemporary politics, and performed community
service for their college applications. Menzi became polite, educated, and
enthusiastic about his SATs - and with this, Menzi's mother was satisfied.

**TL;DR:** Menzi's mother founded the idea of school districts: she moved
around until his son got the best education possible. Probably explains why
Chinese people are into both real estate and tiger-parenting.
