---
layout: post
title: "鷸蚌相爭"
date: 2019-11-25
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _yù bàng xiāng zhēng_
description: Free set meal of bird and clam
---

#### _zì xiāng máo dùn_

Literal: The **Snipe (鷸, yù)** and the **Clam (蚌, bàng)**
**fight each other(相爭, xiāng zhēng)**

Actual: The third party in a conflict always wins

King Hui led the Zhao kingdom during the Warring States period. During one of
his daily stand-up meetings, he declared: “We have a solid chance at acquiring
the Yan kingdom - our soldiers itch for war. Any objections?”

Su Dai, one of his trusted advisors, quietly groaned. Wars were expensive, not
to mention that the neighboring Qing empire was also expanding at a dangerous
pace. Su Dai approached the King and started telling a story.

“I saw something odd the other day - a giant, sun-bathing Clam with its shell
open. Along flew a Snipe, who quickly spotted the sand-bathing Clam. ‘Aha!
Gourmet seafood for lunch!’ The Snipe swooped down and jabbed its beak into
the juicy Clam, which quickly slammed its shell shut on the Snipe's beak.

‘Ack!’ Yelled the Snipe. ‘You won’t get away with this! I’ll wait until
tomorrow, and without any rain you’ll soon dry out!’ The Clam chuckled. ‘Oi!
I’m in no bloody hurry either - by tomorrow you’ll die of thirst, ya wanker!’”
(Su Dai coughed - his British accent needed some work) “‘Well I suppose we’ll
see who wins then,’ said the Snipe.

Some time went by, and along came a fisherman tired from a day’s work. ‘Ah ha!
What a prize! Seafood AND roasted bird for me!’ The fisherman promptly bagged
the clam and bird, who were still too angry to release each other and escape
their doom.”

King Hui held back his various questions about the story ("Why do clams
sound British?") and nodded his head. “I see your point - it would be foolish
to attack now. Dismissed!” Su Dai released a sigh of relief.

**TL;DR:** An advisor convinces the king not to wage a costly war of attrition.
Dragging people down with you may be satisfying, but not as much as third-party
profiteering - CIA-in-the-middle-east-style.
