---
layout: post
title: "東施效顰"
date: 2020-03-05
categories: general
published: true
subtitle: _dōng shī xiào pín_
description: Cardiovascular problems are the new sexy
---

#### _dōng shī xiào pín_

Literal: **Dong Shi (東施, dōng shī)** **imitates (效, xiào)**
**frowning (顰, pín)**

Actual: To imitate something poorly without a deep understanding

[Xi Shi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xi_Shi) was one of the Four Beauties of
Ancient China. These Four Beauties were so elegant that birds and fish would
faint in their presence; the moon and flowers would close up in shame. However,
great beauty came at great costs, especially for Xi Shi. 

Xi Shi had a heart problem due to her poor constitution, befitting the ancient
Chinese image of a delicate, fragile woman (which modern society definitely does
not have an issue with). On the way back from a laundry run, she felt chest
pains and cupped her hand over her heart, her face immersed in a faint sorrow.
People on the street saw Xi Shi’s pained expression and were enchanted by her
nuanced pose; news of her (slightly masochistic) beauty spread within the
village.

In that same village lived another gal, Dong Shi. Unfortunately, Dong Shi was
decidedly not a supermodel. In contemporary slang, “she ugly”. Dong Shi heard
about Xi Shi and her heart problems, and out of her own infinite wisdom
realized: “If I make the same pose as Xi Shi, then I can become as beautiful
as she is!” Thus, Dong Shi went out onto the street, pursing her lips and
holding her hands out awkwardly in an attempt to imitate Xi Shi. Sadly, her
rendition of “fragile and beautiful woman with heart problems” only enhanced
her unsightly appearance, and nearby villagers quickly dispersed whenever they
saw Dong Xi as they muttered something about the Coronavirus.

**TL;DR:** An ugly girl tries to imitate a beautiful one, only to fail
miserably. True beauty comes from within, through healthy self validation and
emotional maturity. At least that’s what I’m told.

Side note: The first character of Xi Shi (西施) is 西 = West; for Dong Shi (東施),
東 = East - a bit of nuanced humor lost through direct translation, as the
two are basically opposites.
